.\" 
.\" Man page for pipexec
.\"
.\" For license, see the 'LICENSE' file.
.\"
.TH peet 1 2015-03-14 "User Commands" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
peet \- piped reverse tee: read from many file descriptors and copy to one
.SH SYNOPSIS
peet [\-h] [\-w outfd] infd1 [infd2 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B peet
reads from many file descriptors and copies
everything to one file descriptor.  If no file descriptor is given
('\-w' option), 1 (stdout) is used.
.P
.B peet
is text line based - i.e. only complete lines are written.  The order of
lines written to the output file descriptor is pure random when there
is more then one file descriptor where a complete line can be read from.
.P
.B peet
can be used with
.B pipexec(1)
to de-multiplex text based output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
print help and version information
.TP
\fB\-w outfd\fR
use the given outfd as output file descriptor.  If this option is not
specified, 1 (stdout) is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
Read from stdin (fd 0), and file descriptors 9 and 11 and write to stdout.
.nf
    peet 0 9 11
.fi
.P
Using pipexec(1): start two commands, both write their log to stdout
and use one instance of rotatelogs(1) to write the logs to disk into a
common log file: (The file descriptors 8 and 11 are chosen by random.)
.nf
    pipexec [ CMD1 /usr/bin/cmd1 ] [ CMD2 /usr/bin/cmd2 ] \\
      [ PEET /usr/bin/peet 8 11 ] \\
      [ RLOGS /usr/bin/rotatelogs /var/log/%Y%m%d_cmd.log ] \\
      "{CMD1:1>PEET:8}" "{CMD2:1>PEET:11}" \\
      "{PEET:1>RLOGS:0}"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pipexec(1),
.BR peet(1),
.BR rotatelogs(1),
.BR tee(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andreas Florath (andreas@florath.net)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 by Andreas Florath (andreas@florath.net).
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
