.\" 
.\" Man page for pipexec
.\"
.\" For license, see the 'LICENSE' file.
.\"
.TH ptee 1 2015-03-14 "User Commands" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ptee \- piped tee: read from one file descriptor and copy to many
.SH SYNOPSIS
ptee [\-h] [\-r infd] outfd1 [outfd2 ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ptee
reads from one file descriptor (0 / stdin by default) and copies
everything to all given output file descriptors.  ptee is a piped
version of tee(1).
.P
.B ptee
can be used with
.B pipexec(1)
to fit the output of one command into many other commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
print help and version information
.TP
\fB\-r infd\fR
use the given infd as input file descriptor.  If this is not
specified, 0 (stdin) is used.
.SH EXAMPLES
Duplicate all data from stdin to stdout, stderr and fd 7:
.nf
    ptee 1 2 7
.fi
.P
The command
.nf
    tee output.txt
.fi
is equivalent to the shell command
.nf
    ptee 5 5>output.txt
.fi
.P
Using pipexec(1): count all files in the file system and additionally
count only those that have a uppercase 'A' in their name.  The file
system will be scanned only once.  No temporary files are generated.
.nf
    pipexec [ LS /bin/ls \-R / ] [ PTEE /usr/bin/ptee 3 4 ] \\
      [ WC1 /usr/bin/wc \-l ] [ GREP /bin/grep A ] \\
      [ WC2 /usr/bin/wc \-l ] "{LS:1>PTEE:0}" "{PTEE:3>WC1:0}" \\
      "{PTEE:4>GREP:0}" "{GREP:1>WC2:0}"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pipexec(1),
.BR peet(1),
.BR tee(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andreas Florath (andreas@florath.net)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 by Andreas Florath (andreas@florath.net).
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
